(1) What is Ansible ?
Agentless, ssh, python, Push mechanism.

(2) What are Ansible Playbooks ?
Playbook is a file where we write YAML script to create infrastructure in nodes.
Here, we use modules to create infrastructure. We create so many sections in playbook. We mention all modules in task section.
You can create any no of playbooks. There is no limit. Each playbook defines one scenario. All sections begin with “-” & its attributes & parameters beneath it.

(3) What is Ansible Tower ?

(4) What are Ansible ad-hoc commands ?

(5) What is Ansible Galaxy ?

(6) What are Ansible Modules ?

(7) What is Ansible Task ?

(8) What are Ansible Roles ?
Its provide a framework for fully independent OR interdependent collections of Variables, Tasks, Files, Templates, Modules. 
It is primary mechanism for breaking a playbook into multiple files and it makes them easier to reuse. 
Roles are not Playbooks and there is no way to directly execute a Roles, the Roles should be used within Playbooks.
Adding more & more functionality to the playbooks will make it difficult to maintain in a single file.
To address this issue, we organize playbooks into a directory structure called “roles”.
We create separate file to each section and we just mention the names of those sections in playbook instead of mentioning all modules in main playbook.
When you call main playbook, main playbook will call all sections files respectively in the order whatever order you mention in playbook.

(9) What are Ansible Vault ?
we use sensitive information in playbooks like passwords, keys … etc. So any one can open these playbooks and get to know about this sensitive information.
So we have to protect our playbooks from being read by others.
So by using Ansible vault, we encrypt playbooks so that, those who ever is having password, only those can read this information.
It is the way of protecting playbooks by encrypting them.

(10) What is the file structure of Ansible roles ?
defaults, vars, tasks, files, templates, meta, handlers.

(11) What is Ansible Variables ?
Variable in playbooks are very similar to using variables in any programming language. 
It helps you to use and assign a value to a variable and use that anywhere in the playbook. 
One can put conditions around the value of the variables and accordingly use them in the playbook.

(12) What is ansible.cfg file ?

(13) When I need details logs on executing ansible-playbook what option I need to use ?

(14) I have a ansible playbook which has 5 tasks in playbook, first 2 tasks should run on local machine and other 3 tasks should run on other machine ?

(15) What is Ansible Galaxy ?

(16) What is difference between Shell and Command in Ansible Modules ?
Shell - The shell module executes shell commands on remote hosts. 
		By default, the shell module uses the /bin/sh shell to execute commands, but it’s possible to use other shells such as /bin/bash by passing the executable argument.
Command - The command module executes simple shell commands on remote hosts. (OR) The command module is used to execute commands on a remote node.

(17) How to replace a word OR line using Ansible ?  

(18) What is difference between Chef, Puppet, Salt and Ansible ?

(19) How to create a custom Ansible Modules ?

(20) What is Ansible Inventory ?

(21) How to handle prompts with Ansible Playbooks ?

(22) What is difference between Copy and Fetch in Ansible Modules ?
Copy - The copy module copies a file from the local or remote machine to a location on the local or remote machine.
Fetch - The fetch module to copy files from remote locations to the local box. (OR) It is used for fetching files from remote machines and storing them locally in a file.

(23) What is Handlers in Ansible Playbooks ?
Handlers are just like normal tasks in an Ansible playbook but they run only when if the Task contains a “notify” directive. 

(24) Where do we use conditionals in Playbooks ?
Sometimes, your nodes could be mixture of different flavors of Linux OS.
Linux commands vary in different Linux operating systems.
In this case, we can’t execute common set of commands in all machines, at the same time, we can’t execute different commands in each node separately.
To address this issue, we have conditionals concept where commands will be executed based up on certain condition that we give.

(25) Why are we using loops concept in Ansible ?

(26) What is Dry run in playbook ?
Dry run is to test playbook.
Before executing playbook in nodes, we can test whether the code in playbook is written properly or not.
Dry run won’t actually executes playbook, but it shows output as if it executed playbook.
It tests how the playbook is going to behave without running the tasks.

(27) Ansible components ?
Server:- It is the place where we create playbooks and write code in YML format.
Node:- It is the place where we apply code to create infrastructure. Server pushes code to nodes.
SSH:- It is an agent through ansible server pushes code to nodes.
Setup:- It is a module in ansible which gathers nodes information.
Inventory File:- In this file we keep IP/DNS of nodes.

(28) The architecture of Ansible ?
We create Ansible server by installing Ansible package in it.
Python is pre-requisite to install ansible. We need not to install ansible package in nodes.
Because, communication establishes from server to node through “ssh” client. By default all Linux machine will have “ssh” client.
Server is going to push the code to nodes that we write in playbooks. So Ansible follows pushing mechanism.