(1) What is ReplicaSet and ReplicaController ?

(2) What is Liveness Probes, Readiness Probes, Startup Probes ?

(3) What are the types of Services in Kubernetes ?
● ClusterIP 
It restricting the service within the cluster. It expose the service within the Kubernetes cluster.
It is the default Kubernetes service that provides a service inside a cluster (with no external access) that other apps inside your cluster can access.
● NodePort
It will expose the service on a static port on the deployment node. A ClusterIP service to which NodePort service will route is automatically created. The service can be accessed from outside the cluster using the NodeIP:NodePort.
● LoadBalancer
It use cloud providers load balancer.
● ExternalName

(4) What is Multi-Containers Pod & Pod can have Multi-Containers ?

(5) Can we deploy a Pod on a Master node ?

(6) Can we deploy a Pod on a particular node ?

(7) What is Init Container and Side-Car Container ?
● Side-Car
It is a utility container that is used to extend support for a main container in a Pod. 
An example would be using a sidecar container specifically to process system logs or for monitoring.

(8) What is the link between Pod and Service ?

(9) Explain the Architecture of Kubernetes ?

(10) What are StatefulSets in Kubernetes ?

(11) What is default deployment strategie in Kubernetes ?
Rolling Update.

(12) How to maintain a Kubernetes Pod log files ?

(13) When deploying a pod is getting failed, what was the issue ?
Image Name, Port No already used, Memory issue of Pod. 

(14) How to monitor pods in kubernetes ?

(15) Is possible to deploy different containers in one pod kubernetes ?
Yes

(16) Is possible to deploy same containers in one pod kubernetes ?
No

(17) Have created a Service for 3 replicas of 1 application but now 1 more pod created with a same label, in that case the traffic can be redirected to only those 3 pod or will be consider newly created one more pod also ?
Yes, the traffic will redirected to 4 pods as well because of the service is keep monitoring the label if any new pod is created with same label the service using a selector that will match to the label.

(18) what the command to fetch the labels of a pod which already existing ?
kubectl get pods POD_NAME --show-labels
kubectl get pods --show-labels

(19) Creating a pods, replicasets, deployment but forget to mention the labels in manifest files or through cli ?
manifest files - metedata -> name: NAME, with that NAME will be created an label automatically. 
cli - kubectl run NAME --image=IMAGE_NAME:TAG, with that NAME will be created an label automatically.

(20) How to add more labels to existing pod ?
kubectl label pod POD_NAME key1=valueA key2=valueB key3=valueC

(21) How to overwrite the labels to existing pod ?
kubectl label pod POD_NAME key2=valueXYZ --overwrite

(22) How to remove the labels to existing pod ?
kubectl label pod POD_NAME -l key1-

(23) What is Annotations vs Labels ?
Annotations - used to integrate with external purpose inside a cluster.
Labels - used to integrate with internal purpose inside a cluster.

(24) What are Types of Selectors ?
● equality-based - Equality OR Inequality-based requirements allow filtering by label keys and values. Three kinds of operators are admitted =,==,!=
  environment = production                  # The former selects all resources with key equal to environment and value equal to production
  tier != frontend                          # not selected
  environment=production,tier!=frontend
● set-based - label requirements allow filtering keys according to a set of values. Three kinds of operators are supported: in, notin, exists
  environment in (production, qa)           # selects all resources with key equal to environment and value equal to production or qa
  tier notin (frontend, backend)            # selects all resources with key equal to tier and values other than frontend and backend, and all resources with no labels with the tier key
  partition                                 # selects all resources including a label with key partition no values are checked
  !partition                                # selects all resources without a label with key partition no values are checked
  
(25) If a load might be reduce or increase so automatically the pods should be increase is there any object to do that ?
Yes, HPA.

(26) Pod is in pending state what might be the reason ?
Schedular, Node Selector, Taints and Tolerations, Affinity and Anti-Affinity, insufficient ResourceQuota (CPU & Memory).

(27) Can have multiple Init Containers ?
Yes.

(28) Init Containers will exected parallely ?
No, it will executed one after the other.

(29) Suppose have a Deployment with 6 Replicas of Pod in one of the Pod out of rotation (update, configuration) again point to the service ?
By using Pod Label, simply remove/change label of the Pod OR else fails the readiness probe.

(30) In a Pod/Container never find some commands utility like bash, sh, ping so what a solution ?
Ephemeral Containers (OR) Istio.

(31) What are various kubernetes object need to setup for Monitoring ?
Deployments, Services, PV, ServiceAccounts, Namespaces.

(32) Why does CrashLoopBackOff usually occur ?
Probe failure - The pod is crashing because of a liveness probe not returning a successful status.
Out of Memory Failure (OOM)
Application Failure
Links:- https://devtron.ai/blog/troubleshoot_crashloopbackoff_pod/

(33) What is Kube-proxy ?
Kube-proxy is an implementation of both a network proxy and a load balancer.
It is used to support service abstraction used with other networking operations.
t is responsible for directing traffic to the container depend on IP and the port number.

(34) If a node is tainted, is there a way to still schedule the pods to that node ?
When a node is tainted, the pods don't get scheduled by default, however, if we have to still schedule a pod to a tainted node we can start applying tolerations to the pod spec.

(35) What is the difference between configmap and secret ?
Config maps ideally stores application configuration in a plain text format whereas Secrets store sensitive data like password in an encrypted format.
Both config maps and secrets can be used as volume and mounted inside a pod through a pod definition file.

(36) How can you get a static IP for a Kubernetes load balancer ?
A static IP for the Kubernetes load balancer can be achieved by changing DNS records since the Kubernetes Master can assign a new static IP address.

(37) What is NodePort ?
It opens a specific port on all Nodes and forwards any traffic sent to this port to the service.

(38) What is the job of the kube-scheduler ?
The kube-scheduler assigns nodes to newly created pods.

(39) What process runs on Kubernetes Master Node ?
The Kube-api server process runs on the master node and serves to scale the deployment of more instances.

(40) What is a pod ?
A pod is the most basic Kubernetes object.
A pod consists of a group of containers running in your cluster.

(41) What is Headless Service ?
It is similar to that of a ‘Normal’ services but does not have a Cluster IP.
This service enables you to directly reach the pods without the need of accessing it through a proxy.

(42) What is Namespaces ?

(43) What is Ingress Controllers ?

(44) What is Lifecycle of kubectl ?

(45) What happen if Liveness Probes fails ?

(46) What is Managed Cluster & Self Managed Cluster ?

(47) How traffic from outside reach to applications in Pod in Ingress ?

(48) What is pause container in Kubernetes ?
Which holds the network namespace for the pod.
Kubernetes creates pause containers to acquire the respective pod’s IP address and set up the network namespace for all other containers that join that pod.
Every Kubernetes pod includes an empty pause container, which bootstraps the pod to establish all of the cgroups, reservations, and namespaces before its individual containers are created.
The pause container image is always present, so the pod resource allocation happens instantaneously as containers are created.

(49) Explain PVC ?
The full form of PVC stands for Persistent Volume Claim.
It is storage requested by Kubernetes for pods.
This claim should be created in the same namespace where the pod is created.

(50) What are the types of Kubernetes Volume ?
The types of Kubernetes Volume are: EmptyDir, GCE persistent disk, Flocker, HostPath, NFS, ISCSI, rbd, PersistentVolumeClaim, downwardAPI, ....etc.

(51) What is ContainerCreating pod ?
It is one that can be scheduled on a node but can’t start up properly.

(52) What is Minikube ?
It runs on the single nodes that are inside VM on a computer. 
This tool is also used by programmers who are developing an application using Kubernetes.
This runs a single-node Kubernetes cluster inside a virtual machine.

(53) Can we use many claims out of a persistent volume ?
The mapping between persistentVolume and persistentVolumeClaim is always one to one.
Even when delete the claim, PersistentVolume still remains as we set persistentVolumeReclaimPolicy is set to Retain and It will not be reused by any other claims.

(54) What is kube-scheduler ?

(55) What is kubectl ?
It is the platform using which you can pass commands to the cluster.
It basically provides the CLI to run commands against the Kubernetes cluster with various ways to create and manage the Kubernetes component.

(56) What is the difference between DaemonSet, Deployment, ReplicationController ?
● DaemonSet
It ensures that all nodes you select are running exactly one copy of a pod.
● Deployment
It manages the scheduling and lifecycle of pods.
It provides several key features for managing pods, including pod health checks, rolling updates of pods, the ability to roll back, and the ability to easily scale pods horizontally.
● ReplicationController
It specifies how many exact copies of a pod should be running in a cluster.

(57) Is there any Kubernetes and Docker are related ?

(58) What is Kube-Schedular ?
