(1) How do write a Terraform script for AWS Resource if already exists ?
The terraform import command is used to import existing resources into Terraform. Terraform is able to import existing infrastructure. 

(2) Terraform Provisioners (Files, Remote, Local) & AWS user-data ?

(3) Terraform State Files (Normal, Backend - Enhanced & Standard) ?

(4) How do you inspect the current state of the infrastructure applied ?
COMMAND:- terraform show
When you applied your configuration, Terraform wrote data into a file called terraform.tfstate. 
This file now contains the IDs and properties of the resources Terraform created so that it can manage or destroy those resources going forward.

(5) Local Terraform State File sync with Remote Terraform State File ?
Copy the Particular block from the Local State File the paste it into Remote State File.

(6) Users have deleted existing AWS Resources from AWS Console which has been created through a Terraform script, so if I create the same AWS Resource with Terraform script again OR not ?
Yes! It will initially check with AWS Provider meta-data & State file meta-data, so if not present will create the same new AWS Resource again.

(7) How do we mention Terraform Version & AWS Plugin Version in Terraform script ?

(8) Your team has decided to use terraform in your company and you have existing infrastructure. How do you migrate your existing resources to terraform and start using it ?
Use terraform import and modify the infrastrcuture in the terraform files and do the terraform workflow (init, plan, apply).

(9) How do you configure Multiple Provider Instances ?
alias

(10) What is an IaC and what are the benefits ?
IaC is a short form of Infrastructure as code.
-> Automation
-> Reusability of the code
-> Versioning

(11) Different environments and you want to deploy your infrastructure in all the environments such as dev, test, prod, etc. How do you achieve it ?
-> Using Folders — Method 1
-> Using Folders — Method 2
-> Workspaces
-> Modules

(12) If your state file is too big and you want to list the resources from your state. What is the command ?
COMMAND:- terraform state list

(13) What are the types of provisioners ?
local-exec
remote-exec

(14) What are workspaces ?
The default workspace name is default.
Certain backends support multiple named workspaces, allowing multiple states to be associated with a single configuration.

(15) Can you delete the default workspace ?
No. You can't ever delete default workspace.