(1) How many EC2 instances can I create OR run per region ? 
20.

(2) What Instance Types are used ?

(3) What is Auto Scaling ?

(4) What is Load Balancing ?

(5) What is Volumes ?
Creating a Volume it should be with in Availability Zone (AZ).
using Volume can build Snapshot, Snapshot Lifecycle Manager.

(6) How to create EC2 Instance as like total stuff ?
creating an AMI.
EC2 Instance Volume can build Snapshot, Snapshot Lifecycle Manager.

(7) What is Snapshots ?
from Snapshot creating with Volume, Instance.
using Snapshot can build Volume, AMI.

(8) What are Elastic IPs ?

(9) What is Lifecycle Manager ?

(10) What is 2/2 check in AWS EC2 Instance ?
System Status Checks - Loss of network connectivity, Loss of system power, Software issues on the physical host, Hardware issues on the physical host that impact network reachability.
Instance Status Checks - Failed system status checks, Exhausted memory, Corrupted file system, Incompatible kernel, Incorrect networking or startup configuration.

(11) What is Placement Groups ?

(12) How to change Instance Type for EC2 Instance ?
Stop the Instance, then Instance Settings -> change Instance Type.

(13) What is Sticky Session in Load Balancer ?
The same client always redirect to same EC2 Instance behind load balancer.
The Sticky Session supports CLB & ALB.

(14) What is the difference between Instance Store and EBS Volumes ?
Instance Store - OS Configuration, Once Instance is stop you cannot persist data.
EBS Volumes - you can persist data, either Instance is running OR stopped.

(15) Can I mount EBS Volume with multiple EC2 Instances ?
No, by using EFS can do.

(16) AMI is in specific region, so I want to create EC2 Instance with that AMI in other different region ?
Yes, using “Copy AMI” option.

(17) What is the difference between AMI and Snapshot ?

(18) What is Spot Requests, Reserved Instances, Dedicated Hosts ?

(19) Can I create like S3 in EC2 Instance ?

(20) Created auto scaling rule when ever load goes more than 60% it should create a new instance currently I have 3 machines A server load is 62%, B server load is 30%, C server load is 30%. Now will auto scaling rule will create a new machine ?
No, the average load will take from all 3 machines within a Auto Scaling Groups will check 60% Utilization like CPU, Network, Load Balancer.

(21) How to access private subnet EC2 instance from outside ?
Jump Server / Bastion Server
